Project developed by Guido Narduzzi and Pasquale Miglionico, undergraduate fellows of the Scuola Normale Superiore of Pisa 
and students of the Department of Biology of the University of Pisa, under the direction of Dr. Filippo Disanto, University of Pisa, Department of Mathematics

This calculates the probability under the multispecies coalescent model of a ranked gene tree topology (RGT) on a ranked species tree (RST). 
It can also calculate the probabilities of all the ranked histories (RH) of the RGT.
These probabilities are function of the time distance between the internal nodes (expressed in coalescent units).

The program will ask the information it needs step by step during its execution, here we explain the options you have in more detail.

_-Input-_
You can submit STs in two different formats: 
- the standard format, for example ((AB)2C)1, where the numbers indicate the rankings of the internal nodes (1 is the root).
- the newick format, for example ((A:0.2,B:0.2):0.2,C:0.4), where the number after every node (leaves included) indicates the lenght of the branch above it.
GTs can only be submitted in the standard format.
If you use the standard format for the ST, to have a numerical output you need to submit the lenghts of the intervals T[2],...,T[N-1] in this order, 
only separated by a comma, where T[i] is the time distance (in coalescent units) between the node of rank i-1 and the node of rank i and N is the number of leaves of the species tree.
You can also use the Yule model option, that is, the value that the program assigns to T[i] is the expected value of T[i] under the multispecies coalescent as determined by Yule, with 
a fitting parameter.
The input can be given typing a ST and a GT on the terminal or submitting two files in the .txt format (one for the species trees and one for the gene trees). Please note that the txt
files need be written according to the example we give here, and can be named however you like. 
If you submit files you can submit multiple trees at the same time, the program will calculate a probability for each couple GT-ST.

_-Output-_
You can choose between a numerical output or a polynomial output. You can choose between the global probability of the GT conditioning on the ST, or that and all the probabilities 
of the GT&rh conditioning on the ST.
A numerical output is simply the numerical value of the probability, it can be printed on the screen or written in a .txt file. 
The polynomial output consist in a .nb file that can be processed by Mathematica giving an explicit formula of the probabilities in function of T[2],...,T[N-1] (as defined before). 
When givenu multiple trees the program can produce an output consisting of multiple files. It can be one file for each ST-GT couple, or one for each ST. In the former situation the 
name of the file will only contain the name of the ST, in the second situation it will contain both the name of the ST and that of the GT, in this order.
 
